---
layout: post
title: Barista
description: Latte art is hard.
image: assets/images/milk.jpg
---

2025-10-10. <br />

During my first employment opportunity as a data engineer, I was doubling with a weekend part-time in a local coffee shop back in Mexico. Not because I needed the extra income, but because I loved being there: talking with customers, learning about them and letting them know a bit about me, making -and drinking- coffee, and having some of the coolest coworkers I have ever worked with, made every weekend something I’d look forward to. <br />

After finishing my post-grad program in Northern Ontario and moving down to Toronto during the summer of ’25, it was clear to me that I’d love to have a similar opportunity to the part-time I had in Mexico: working as a weekend barista would be something I look forward to, and I feel also a great way to get to make new friends in a city that seems to move a bit too fast for people to actually connect.<br />

To my bad luck, I moved to Toronto during one of the worst moments to job-hunt as a young person fresh out of college. During my first couple months here, it slowly started to become clear that, if I wanted to get this one type of job I aspire to, I needed to skill-up.<br />

Compared to Toronto, most of Mexico is still significantly “underdeveloped” when it comes to specialty coffee. While we do have a number of third-wave coffee shops across the country, most of them don’t even realize what they are, or they’re not familiar with the term. Latte art has started to gain ground over the last couple of years: if you’re able to pour a clean tulip or a rosetta, you’re already a top barista.<br />

In my case, the café I used to work at couldn’t be considered a 3rd wave coffee shop, as they had a stronger focus towards community-building, hobbies, and innovative/seasonal drinks. Coming from a city where the average temperature is above 30°C most of the year, hot drinks are not in big demand either, so latte art was far from a requirement, and steaming milk is something that we would only do a couple times a day.<br />

Now that I have a better understanding of Toronto, and how there’s many highly experienced baristas ready to apply to any available opportunity, I understand that if I want to achieve my goal, I need -once again- to start from the bottom. And so I’m doing, getting slightly better week after week, currently being able to consistently get micro-foam and pour “hearts”, and very close to finally pour good-looking tulips. <br />

So far, the road has not been easy. But now I can confidently say I’m way closer to my goal than I was just 6 months ago. I don’t know how much longer it will take me to reach the skill level that will get me a better shot in the current job market, but I know I will eventually get there.
