---
layout: post
title: Silksong
description: Shaw. Edina.
image: assets/images/silksong.jpg
---

2025-09-14. <br />

After being reluctant to play the original Hollow Knight game for a couple months back in 2017, I finally decided to give it a shot, and for sure I was in for a ride.<br />

Back in the day, I wouldn’t consider myself a “souls-like” fan, having never played a Dark Souls game and not very interested in doing so. After beating HK for the first time, my perspective around these games truly changed, and I would say even my perspective about life itself. <br />

See, what makes souls-like magical is not the dopamine hit you get after finally beating a boss you were stuck in for the past 4 hours, but the journey itself. You didn’t give up. Even if you cried, even if you got angry, you prevailed, you kept trying, and finally, you succeeded. <br />

It’s not crazy to say that souls-like might have some sort of long-term “positive” psychological impact, even if there’s a lack of scientific studies around the topic, most gamers who have found themselves enjoying beating this kind of games share the same feeling: it helped them have a more positive outlook at life, embracing challenges, and being less likely to "give up". <a href="https://youtu.be/keIWG6hSD7Q">(Source)</a>. <br />

This is why I have a special appreciation for the Hollow Knight games. Being the first souls-like I ever played, I can confidently say they contributed to me being able to stand where I’m standing now, both in a physical and mental state. <br />

If you ever have the chance to play a SL game, I strongly encourage you to do so. While some games might be a better entry-point to the experience than others, the challenge will always be there, and remember: <b>don’t give up</b>.